---
layout: post
title:  "Fixing Beam Quality"
date:   2022-11-20
categories: optics
---

In the lab we do nonlinear optical microscopy (NLOM). Put simply, we shine lasers through materials in our microscope and probe the light that emerges due to nonlinear interactions in the materials. We are particularly interested in CARS, but we also have SHG/SFG and TPEF channels, giving us multi-modal hyperspectral imaging capabilities. NLOM often requires having precise spatial and temporal overlap between two laser beams—the pump and Stokes beams—that are coupled into our microscope and focused onto the sample. I recently noticed degraded imaging quality coming from the microscope, indicating an issue has occurred. Since our issues are often caused by the PMT noise, ground loops, and DAQ glitches, those were all checked first. Everything seemed to be working properly. Next on the list of usual suspects was beam quality. After all, if the light reaching the samples is suboptimal, no amount of signal optimization is going fix that (although signal processing certainly can help, maybe more on that later). Indeed, this week I realized that the beam was clipping an aperture. This is a common occurrence since a slight adjustment at the beginning of the beam path—such as an optimization of the PCF coupling—can lead to major displacements further along. And although light may have still been making it into the microscope, this clipping caused the beam profile to deviate from the preferred circular beam shape (i.e. TEM00), which is highly problematic for image quality. Since a component of the optical setup must have been shifted for this to occur, a correction was needed. After readjusting the beams so that the clipping was alleviated, I needed to recouple the now circular beam back into the microscope. Luckily, a set of pinholes was already setup to make the job easier. After aligning the pump beam through the pinholes and into the microscope such that the best possible illumination was achieved with the pump beam, the tedious job of reacquiring spatiotemporal overlap needed to be done for CARS to be achieved. I will talk about this process in the next post.