---
layout: post
title:  "Finding CARS: Spatiotemporal Alignment"
date:   2022-11-27
categories: optics
---

Last week's post was about the misalignments in the microscopy setup that were leading to terrible image quality, and consequently, a poor CARS signal. The laser beam was improperly focused into the microscope such that there was nonuniform illumination of the sample. This needed to be fixed before proper imaging could be done. Sometimes it is necessary to make something worse—such as making an adjustment that completely precludes CARS from being measured—in order to ultimately make it better than it previously was. An analogy for this is that one must descend from a local maximum into a valley before the global maximum can be sought. So that was this week's project. In this post I will list the steps that I took to improve the sample illumination and realign the pump and Stokes beams spatially and temporally so that CARS returned. 

Before getting started, here are some things you should take note of:
- You should have experience with ["walking the beam"](https://www.thorlabs.com/newgrouppage9.cfm?objectgroup_id=14221) before setting out on any readjustments. If you mess something up without the proper experience, you may not be able to fix it.
- If the microscopy setup had CARS working previously, it is unlikely that any mirrors need to be repositioned on the table. Simply rotating the mirrors with the adjustment knobs should be good enough for alignment. If a mirror has been moved, there is a chance that it is no longer possible for proper alignment to be achieved without moving the mirror back. So beware.
- Before making any adjustments, it is good to check that the delay stage is properly aligned. If it is improperly aligned it may lead to beam displacement when it is moved, making spatiotemporal alignment practically impossible over the whole scanning range. If it is not properly aligned, [align it](https://www.wiredsense.com/tutorial/how-to-align-optical-delay-stages-correctly-within-5-minutes)! Doing this first will save work.
- In our lab we are often dealing with near-infrared laser beams which are invisible to the naked eye. Thus, it is impossible to align them without an IR viewer. If the lab IR viewer is too bulky/inconvenient, use your phone camera. The CCD in most phone cameras extends into the NIR to at least 1000 nm. So everyone has a handy IR viewer in their pocket.
- Try to be as precise as possible. Sometimes a millimeter makes the difference between CARS and no CARS. 

With all of that out of the way, here is my simple method for finding CARS in the microscope:
1. **Align the pump beam into the microscope so that it optimally illuminates the sample**. In our microscope we have an unfiltered backscatter channel that we use for seeing regions of interest without considering any nonlinear optical effects. We monitor this channel and adjust the pump until it uniformly illuminates the sample at maximum intensity. We use a target/calibration slide to assess the image quality. The unfiltered channel should look similar to the brightfield image that would be seen through the eyepiece.
2. **Align the Stokes beam so that it is collinear to the pump beam**. After optimizing the pump beam, leave it alone and move onto the Stokes beam. Walk the Stokes until it overlaps the pump as perfectly as possible. This can be achieved by ensuring that the pump and Stokes both pass through a common pinhole close to the beam combiner, and before the microscope we have a flip-mount mirror that we can use to temporarily redirect the beam through a long optical path, at the end of which we ensure that the pump and Stokes coincide at another pinhole. Although it is possible that the beams still don't perfectly overlap in the sample due to dispersion in the microscope, this will at least put you in the right ball park.
3. **Optimize CARS by making small adjustments to the Stokes beam**. Begin by ensuring that you have placed a Raman-active sample in the microscope and have it in focus. We like to use carotenoids—such as astaxanthin or β-carotene—due to their remarkably high Raman cross-sections. If you don't see CARS now, you may not know whether it's because of misalignment between the pump and Stokes, or if the microscope is not in focus, or if the delay stage is not providing temporal overlap between the laser pulses. If you have no idea which delay stage position corresponds to t-zero (i.e. temporal overlap), this may seem like finding a needle in a haystack. If you do a delay stage scan and don't find a specific location with significantly more intensity than everywhere else, it is likely that the Stokes is not aligned. This may take some trial and error depending on the situation, but this is very much what finding CARS is all about. Alternatively, one can use TPEF to optimize the Stokes and pump alignment. 
4. **Test/calibrate CARS by performing a spectral scan**. Assuming that your Stokes beam is a chirped supercontinuum generated by a PCF, scanning the delay stage will result in different Stokes wavelengths overlapping temporally with the pump. This allows for spectral scanning just by varying the delay stage position. Now place a known material with a distinctive Raman spectrum in the microscope and record the CARS channel for each delay position in some range. By identifying the delay stage positions at which Raman peaks occur, we can associate your delay positions with wavenumbers at which we expect those Raman peaks. We like to use astaxanthin since it has three distinct peaks at roughly 1000, 1100, and 1520 cm-1. This gives a reasonable calibration. For more accuracy, one can plot the delay position versus expected wavenumber for many known peaks and create a linear or quadratic fit.


This is what I have learned from my first time finding CARS this past week. I hope you find it useful and it saves you some time coming up with a procedure. Feel free to contact me if you have any comments of suggestions on how to improve my procedure. 